# 4th Meeting with Dr. Luis

**Date:** 24<sup>st</sup> Nov 2025  
**Time:** 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm and 4:00 pm - 4:45 pm  

---

## 🧭 Discussion

1. **Reserach Idea on Hyperbolic framework**  
   - Jiayuan found the current *Hyperbolic SSL* works are not reliable and solid enough 
   - Jiayuan proposed an idea which used Hyperbolic SSL AL to select data to reslove fine-grained idea, but he raised too many assumptions which were not reliable and might not compile with intuition. For example, why Hyperbolic SSL can classify similar images (two kinds of dog) was not clear. If it is true, it is due to ears, eyes, nose? or just the background?
   - Jiayuan and Luis discussed about Exactly what is the transition point. And they agreed that transition point defines when  AL strategies will work better than Random selection.

2. **Proposed Research Assumption**  
   Luis proposed an assumption:
   - **(a)** Given a latent space, we can propose a measurment to see when we can stop random sampling.
   - **(b)** We need this measurment to identify how many data samples do we need to select randomly, and after labeling this amount, we can use AL strategies. Thus, each time a new dataset is introduced, we can estimate to what extent do we need to use randomly sampling.(Giving an concrete data number.).

3. **Study Methodology Advice**  
   - Luis advised Jiayuan to read literatures while getting tired of studying theory and record the problems, limitations of the method, and raise a method to solve it and re-read it in the next morning to see if it can persuade him selfself.

---

## ✅ Action Plan

1. **Continue studying PAC-Framework in the next one or two weeks**  
   - Review unfinished papers and the new ones recommended by Dr. Luis:  
     - [PAC-bayes Bound]([https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10926](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04381))  
     - [An Introduction to learning theory]([https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2008/file/288cc0ff022877bd3df94bc9360b9c5d-Paper.pdf](http://103.203.175.90:81/fdScript/RootOfEBooks/E%20Book%20collection%20-%202023%20-%20E/CSE%20ITAIDSML/An_Introduction_to_Computational_Learning_Theory_Kearns_and_Vazirani.pdf))

2. **Keep recording ideas**  
   - Each time Jiayuan comes up with an idea, record it, Luis and Jiayuan will discuss about them and find good ones.


---

**Attendees:** Dr. Luis, Jiayuan  
**Duration:** 2h  
